---
layout: post
---
# Differences between Coaching and Mentoring
Have you ever considered the distinction between coaching and mentoring? I certainly have. In interviews and sometimes in daily life, we tend to overcomplicate straightforward things simply because we have not paid attention to the subject in the past. In the following paragraphs, I'll share my thoughts on the topic.

## Coaching
When I think of coaching, the first examples that come to mind are those found in sports. Using swimming as a specific illustration, let's examine the key traits of coaching. Consider someone who trains to win a gold medal at the Olympics. They work with a coach to win the only gold medal available in their weight, age, or gender category; typically aiming to win it at the next or the following Olympics. The goal in this scenario is crystal clear: Win the gold medal at the next Olympics. The swimmer collaborates with a coach to improve their performance. The coach establishes a baseline of the current performance and creates a training plan with measurable intermediate goals that increase the swimmer's chances of winning. The swimmer and coach work together to achieve the goal, with the coach holding the swimmer accountable for meeting the intermediate milestones. The training plan is usually adjusted based on the swimmer's progress against the training plan.
In a formal setting, the coach therefore shares responsibility for achieving a goal that is ultimately owned by someone else. The coach holds the individual accountable for working towards the goal. The coach adds value by establishing the current state, creating a training or execution plan, tracking performance against planned milestones, and making adjustments as necessary. There is a clear goal set at the start of the engagement, and the engagement may end once the goal is achieved. The coach is usually an expert in their field and is usually paid for their time invested.

## Mentoring
In contrast, mentoring is more of a casual relationship between two individuals. It often takes a more flexible form and can persist over a long period of time, spanning several years or decades. There is no specific goal set and the mentor typically offers advice on a range of topics during this time. There may not be a fixed timeline, and the existence of the relationship may not be acknowledged by both individuals. The mentee is free to follow or ignore the mentor's advice, and the mentor has no responsibility for ensuring the mentee's goals are achieved. It is more challenging to measure the success of a mentoring relationship, but the advantages of mentorship are undeniable. Mentoring can be seen as a preliminary step to coaching, for example, while a coach helps a swimmer train to reach their goal, a mentor helps the individual decide whether to invest years in training for Olympic swimming or explore other options.

## Summary
This is my personal understanding of these two personal growth support systems, based on my own experiences. Your understanding may differ or you may find it incorrect or conflicting. If so, I welcome other perspectives and would be happy to hear them. Please feel free to share your thoughts by adding a comment.
